What do you see
when you look at this picture?
Do you see yourself in it?
You should.
But why?
This picture helps us to visualize
the beautiful description of Jehovah
found at Isaiah 40:11:
“Like a shepherd he will care for his flock.
“With his arm
he will gather together the lambs,
“and in his bosom he will carry them.
He will gently lead
those nursing their young.”
Jehovah bears many titles in the Bible,
but the designation “Shepherd”
is among the most tender.
Like a shepherd,
Jehovah says ‘he will carry
his lambs in his bosom,’
illustrating his tender love and care
for each one of his precious sheep.
Look again at the picture.
Is it hard for you to see yourself as a lamb
nestled in the bosom
of our Shepherd, Jehovah?
We know that many
of you dear brothers and sisters
are coping with very difficult challenges
day after day in this cruel, wicked world.
Such challenges can make it difficult for you
to feel like a lamb,
safe and secure in the bosom of our Shepherd.
Please be assured
that Jehovah is fully aware
of every challenge you face.
Why can you be so sure?
Let’s read what David,
the writer of Psalm 23:4, says:
“Though I walk in the valley of deep shadow,
“I fear no harm, for you are with me;
your rod and your staff reassure me.”
Much like a physical valley
located deep in the shadows
of nearby mountains,
a figurative valley
can be used to describe
a low point in one’s life
—when we’re feeling down,
gloomy, or in a dark place.
When David wrote this psalm,
he was feeling down,
at a low point in his life.
Well, what “valley of deep shadow”
are you currently going through?
Are you feeling overwhelmed with
trying to provide for your family’s needs?
dealing with a serious health issue,
such as cancer?
exhausted because you are caring
for your mate or a parent with dementia?
trying to cope with the death of a loved one?
battling feelings of loneliness,
worthlessness, or anxiety?
or facing persecution?
It’s so difficult to remain positive
when facing the darkest days of our life.
But there is a bright side.
What is that?
Jehovah is aware
of the mountainlike obstacles
that cause you to feel low,
as if you were in a “valley of deep shadow.”
He not only sees your pain,
but he’s ready to come to your rescue,
lift you up with his strong arms,
and embrace you
like that lamb in the picture.
Psalm 23 is one
of the most well-known passages in the Bible
and beautifully describes the loving way
that our Shepherd, Jehovah, leads, protects,
and feeds his precious sheep.
As we consider these three ways
that Jehovah cares for us,
look for the answers
to the following questions:
What does Jehovah do?
How does he do it?
And what do you need to do?
The first way: Our Shepherd leads us.
At Psalm 23:1, the theme of our discussion,
David expressed with full confidence:
“Jehovah is my Shepherd.
I will lack nothing.”
As a young man,
David proved to be a capable shepherd
who tenderly cared for
and protected his entire flock
and cared for the specific needs
of each sheep.
Here in Psalm 23, David portrays himself,
not as a shepherd, but as a humble sheep
under the loving care of Jehovah,
affectionately calling him “my Shepherd.”
During his lifetime,
David experienced many highs and lows,
peaks and valleys, joys and disappointments.
But whatever
“valley of deep shadow” he faced,
David always relied on his Shepherd
to lead him to safety
and provide exactly
what he needed when he needed it.
With complete trust and confidence, he said:
“I will lack nothing.”
No wonder Psalm 23
has been called
“a psalm of assurance or trust.”
What does our Shepherd do?
Verses 2 and 3 answer:
“In grassy pastures he makes me lie down;
“he leads me to well-watered resting-places.
“He refreshes me.
“He leads me in the paths of righteousness
for the sake of his name.”
The Watchtower  once explained:
“David here paints a scene of contentment,
refreshment, and security.”
Jehovah leads us to “grassy pastures”
and “tranquil waters.”
“The Hebrew word rendered ‘pastures’
can mean ‘pleasant place.’”
If we humbly follow our Shepherd,
he will lead us to a “pleasant place”
where we can feel secure
and have peace of mind,
even when we’re going through
a “valley of deep shadow.”
How does Jehovah lead us?
By means of his Word,
he teaches us how to make wise decisions
that lead to “paths of righteousness,”
a life course that is pleasing to him
and brings us happiness.
He sets a course and a pace
that we’re able to follow,
never expecting us
to do more than we’re able.
Jehovah also leads us
by means of undershepherds, the elders,
who tenderly care for us spiritually,
emotionally, and physically
so that we will “lack nothing.”
What do you need to do?
If you’re going
through a “valley of deep shadow,”
search our many publications
for specific Bible principles
and helpful advice that can shed light
on your present circumstances
and provide practical ways
to overcome difficulties
or give you the patience to endure.
Many find encouragement and comfort
watching JW Broadcasting®.
In fact, one sister said:
“JW Broadcasting
has helped me to be more positive . . .
“When I get lonely or discouraged,
“I find an encouraging talk
or [a] Morning Worship program to watch.”
Are you benefiting
from the monthly broadcasts,
videos, and uplifting songs?
The second way: Our Shepherd protects us.
Let’s read the second half of verse 4:
“Your rod and your staff reassure me.”
David used a shepherd’s rod and staff
to illustrate Jehovah’s protective care.
Ancient shepherds used a rod
to protect their sheep from predators
such as lions, bears, wolves, and snakes.
They also used a staff to guide their sheep,
gently nudging them in the right direction.
Interestingly, some staffs had a hook
at the end of the long stick
that helped them as a shepherd
to gently draw back a sheep straying
or nibbling into danger,
guiding them back
to the protection of the flock.
The sheep certainly did not fear
that the shepherd would use his rod
or his staff to beat them.
What does Jehovah do?
Our loving Shepherd stands
ready to use his figurative rod and staff
to warn and protect us
from predators seeking to harm us,
especially from Satan,
who in the Bible is portrayed
as a vicious lion and a cunning serpent.
Jehovah also has appointed
elders in the congregation
to warn and protect us
from harmful influences
and from taking a dangerous path
in this wicked world.
No doubt you’re filled
with heartfelt appreciation
and are comforted
knowing that Jehovah is always on the lookout
to use his figurative rod and staff
to warn and protect us, not to beat us.
If you’ve strayed or nibbled away
from the flock for whatever reason,
please listen to Jehovah
as he speaks to you
through his written Word, the Bible,
and our brotherhood.
Humbly follow the gentle nudging
to lead you back
to the safety of the congregation,
where you’ll enjoy lush “grassy pastures”
and refreshing “well-watered resting-places.”
Elders, you are entrusted
with a privileged but heavy responsibility
to protect Jehovah’s precious sheep,
whom He’s placed under your care.
We take this opportunity
to express our sincere appreciation
for those of you
who use your figurative rod and staff
to protect the sheep,
never making them feel beaten down
but truly loved and appreciated.
How does Jehovah protect us?
He protects us as a group, or flock.
Satan will never succeed
in wiping Jehovah’s sheep from the earth.
Jehovah also protects
each sheep individually.
How?
Most important, he protects us spiritually.
The Draw Close to Jehovah  book explains:
“Our loving God
protects us from spiritual harm
“by equipping us with what we need
in order to endure trials
“and to safeguard our relationship with him.
“Jehovah thus works to preserve our life,
not just for a few short years
but for eternity.”
How reassuring that Jehovah makes sure
that we have everything we need
so that we will, in effect, “lack nothing”!
What do you need to do?
Take full advantage
of the many provisions
Jehovah makes available
to protect us spiritually
—prayer, fellow worshippers,
and timely spiritual food,
which we’ll discuss next.
The third way: Our Shepherd feeds us.
Psalm 23:5, 6 reassures us:
“You prepare a table for me
before my enemies.
“You refresh my head with oil;
my cup is well-filled.
“Surely goodness and loyal love
will pursue me all the days of my life,
and I will dwell in the house of Jehovah
for all my days.”
What does Jehovah do?
David now describes our Shepherd
as a generous host
who spreads before us, his invited guests,
delicious and nutritious food and drink
in great abundance.
How does Jehovah feed us?
Through “the faithful and discreet slave,”
Jehovah gives us timely publications
as well as rich spiritual programs
at our meetings, assemblies,
conventions, JW Broadcasting,
Governing Body updates,
along with encouraging songs and videos,
and so much more.
Truly, the slave is giving us
“food at the proper time”
—what we need when we need it.
We certainly “lack nothing” spiritually.
What do you need to do?
Show your appreciation
for the food the slave provides
by eating it and never being fussy, picky,
or selective in your eating habits.
Remember, the Bible
and Bible-based publications
are ways that Jehovah speaks to us,
in effect, saying:
“This is the way.
Walk in it,” my precious sheep.
As we read the Bible
and meditate on the verses
that touch our heart,
we’ll be better equipped
to correct any faulty thinking
that could lead us
to dark feelings of anxiety,
loneliness, worthlessness,
anger, or resentment.
Like David, be determined
to “dwell in the house of Jehovah
for all [your] days.”
Continue attending our upbuilding meetings,
assemblies, and conventions,
where we receive
spiritual nourishment and protection.
A sister who has traversed
various “valley[s] of deep shadow”
expressed what helps her
to stay focused and to keep on enduring.
She said: “Depressive thoughts
are not trustworthy.
“They are the product of a treacherous heart
“that distorts our thinking abilities.
“But because I trust Jehovah completely,
“each Bible verse proves to be
like a solid stepping stone
that enables me to gradually climb out
of my many valleys of deep shadow.”
Our sister expressed so well
how we feel about our loving Shepherd
who promises to help us successfully navigate
through any “valley of deep shadow.”
Isn’t this a beautiful picture
of a shepherd with his sheep?
It’s adorned
the Governing Body conference room
since the 1970’s.
It’s a visual reminder
of the importance of their work as shepherds.
Brother Lösch, a member
of the Governing Body since 1994,
recently explained
what this inspiring painting
has meant to him throughout the decades.
Enjoy the following video segment.
This painting
in the Governing Body conference room
shows the shepherd and his sheep.
And the shepherd is caring for the sheep,
and they feel, obviously,
comfortable and protected.
And they do that despite,
as you can see in the background,
stormy weather.
But the sheep feel just fine.
In connection
with the application in the Bible,
the Bible shows that Jehovah God
is a shepherd who cares for us as his sheep,
but so is Jesus Christ.
He is called “the fine shepherd.”
And what are shepherds to do?
Well, shepherds lead the sheep,
feed the sheep,
and shepherds protect the sheep.
But then shepherds
also care for injured
or ailing sheep.
The fact is
that all of God’s people are sheep.
And so we have the privilege
to all follow the lead
of Jehovah and Jesus and the elders
and to work together in unity.
At the Governing Body meeting,
we sometimes look at the picture
and we try to apply
what is implied in the painting
to our work with the congregations
and the worldwide flock.
Thank you, Brother Lösch, for sharing
those encouraging comments with us.
How reassuring it is to know
that our loving shepherds
on the Governing Body
take their responsibility to lead, protect,
and feed you, me,
and all of Jehovah’s precious sheep
very seriously!
May we all continue
to humbly and obediently follow their lead
as we follow closely the lead
of our Great Shepherd, Jehovah,
and in the footsteps
of our Fine Shepherd and King, Jesus.
Never forget that Jehovah
is not just our Shepherd,
he is your Shepherd; he is my Shepherd.
With Jehovah, our Shepherd,
leading, protecting, and feeding us,
we can face the future
with complete confidence
and echo the words that David used
to introduce this beautiful
and reassuring psalm
—the words contained at Psalm 23:1:
“Jehovah is my Shepherd.
I will lack nothing.”